# Multi-Omics Assessment of Organoid Communication in a Six-Tissue Microphysiological System (MPS)

This repository contains code used to conduct the analyses associated with the manuscript *"Inter-tissue communication shapes human metabolic tissue states and resolves anti-diabetic drug response modes in a six-tissue microphysiological system"*, currently available as a preprint [bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/).

The data to replicate this study's result is available at the following repositories:
- Bulk RNAseq .fastq files: SRA accessions [BioProject...](SRA)
- Bulk RNAseq gene expression matrices: GEO accession [GSE...](GEO)
- Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS) mzXML files: Metabolights accession [MTBLS...](Metabolights)
- LC-MS raw and transformed peak intensity matrices: Metabolights accession [MTBLS...](Metabolights)

## Bulk RNAseq Data Processing
The .fastq files from Illumina outputs were processed using the [nf-core/rnaseq pipeline v3.19](https://nf-co.re/rnaseq/). The pipeline was executed on the Johns Hopkins University DISCOVERY HPC using SLURM (see `coculture_tissues_rnaseq` folder). Multiple R (v4.4.2) packages were used to analyze the gene expression matrices generated by nf-core/rnaseq Salmon quantitation, including tximport and DESeq2 (v1.46).

### `coculture_tissues_rnaseq`
The `coculture_tissues_rnaseq` folder contains code to run the analyses pertaining to the RNAseq data.
- The `coculture_tissues_rnaseq/nfcore_rnaseq_run` folder contains the `run_nfcore_rnaseq.sh` file, a SLURM script to execute the nf-core/rnaseq pipeline starting from .fastq files. The reference human genome was obtained from [NCBI - GCF_000001405.40](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/genome/GCF_000001405.40/)
- The `coculture_tissues_rnaseq/data` folder contains the sample sheet (`coculture_rnaseq_nfcore_samplesheet.csv`) used as input for the nfcore/rnaseq pipeline. A sample metadata file (`RNA_SampleList.xlsx`) is also available.
- `coculture_tissues_rnaseq/code` folder contains a pipeline in the form of a series of R scripts, which were executed in the order indicated by their file names (`step1_*`, `step2_*`, ...). The pipeline begins with processing of Salmon quantifications (nfcore/rnaseq pipeline) and creation of a DESeq object for downstream analyses. Next, Filtering of low-expression genes was performed and batch correction via surrogate variable analysis (SVA). Finally, differential gene expression tests were conducted and corresponding Gene Set Enrichment Analyses (GSEA).

## Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS) Data Processing
The mzXML files containing the spectra were exported to a peak intensity matrix and annotated by the Proteomics and Metabolomics Core Facility at the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center (Tampa, FL, USA). The peak intensity matrix was read into R for filtering, batch effect correction, and differential abundance testing.

### `coculture_supernatant_metabolomics`


### `manuscript_figures` script
The `code/XXXXX` contains R instructions to create the plots assembled for the manuscript.


